---
Title: "How Quantum Computers can change the world?"
PublishedAt: 2021-11-20
IsPublish: true
---

# How Quantum Computers can change the world?

> “Quantum Computing teaches us a way to create a better world.”

A classical computation is like a solo voice — one line of pure tones succeeding each other. A quantum computation is like a symphony — many lines of tones interfering with one another.

How many of you ever imagined the world with photons,electrons,protons,and so on… when your teacher started to teach quantum mechanics in your grade 7 ? Have you ever wondered how can a computer work by just manipulating bits ? I started thinking about all these and began to be curious about technology. Then I came to know about Quantum Computing ,an interesting field ,which can solve almost all problems that weren’t solved on classical computer. It’s going to be a highly contrived problem, but it’ll prove the concept that actual quantum computers can do things that classical computers cannot. There’s also the hope that soon we’ll be in a position where quantum computers are actually solving useful problems, most likely to do with chemistry. Chemistry, at its most fundamental level, is a quantum phenomenon; it involves quantum mechanics. So it makes sense to simulate it using a quantum computer. Here again, people want to use quantum computers because that seems to be the natural way of tackling things.


Another really fascinating thing is that IBM has recently put a quantum computer on the cloud. It’s a very small quantum computer, with only five qubits, but anyone can play with it. You can play with it for free and it’s got a nice graphical interface. So, we’re getting to the stage where quantum computing is going to be available.I feel most people have no idea what quantum computing is about and I’d like to change that. The only difficulty comes from the fact that in our daily lives we have no experience of quantum phenomena and so we have to use math.That’s true. There are the two concepts : superposition of states and entanglement, which we’re not familiar with in our everyday experience. Since we have no natural intuition about them, they need to be described mathematically. There’s this feeling that to understand quantum computing you need to understand quantum mechanics, but that’s not the case. There are just some really wonderful results and because we’re not familiar with these two things they seem quite counterintuitive. A qubit should have a certain state, but if an error has crept in, then it is now in a different state. On the one hand, you’ve got to detect the error and you’ve got to correct it. On the other hand, you can never take a measurement of the qubit, because if you take a measurement you’ll change it into something else. At first it seems to be an impossible problem. But when you see how it’s done, it’s absolutely fascinating …
Have you ever wondered how Dokodemo door ( Anywhere door) in Doremon series can work? We used to think about that when we were kids.


Teleportation is also possible and it’s been done many times. What we’re talking about is teleporting the states of qubits. A Chinese team has actually teleported a qubit from Earth to a satellite in low earth orbit. Therefore,Quantum teleportation exists and it’s used for communication.

## How quantum computers work?

Quantum computers perform calculations based on the probability of an object’s state before it is measured — instead of just 1s or 0s — which means they have the potential to process exponentially more data compared to classical computers. Classical computers carry out logical operations using the definite position of a physical state. These are usually binary, meaning its operations are based on one of two positions. A single state — such as on or off, up or down, 1 or 0,true or false — is called a bit.


In quantum computing, operations instead use the quantum state of an object to produce what’s known as a qubit. These states are the undefined properties of an object before they’ve been detected, such as the spin of an electron or the polarisation of a photon. Rather than having a clear position, unmeasured quantum states occur in a mixed ‘superposition’, not unlike a coin spinning through the air before it lands in your hand. These superpositions can be entangled with those of other objects, meaning their final outcomes will be mathematically related even if we don’t know yet what they are. The complex mathematics behind these unsettled states of entangled ‘spinning coins’ can be plugged into special algorithms to make short work of problems that would take a classical computer a long time to work out… if they could ever calculate them at all.Such algorithms would be useful in solving complex mathematical problems, producing hard-to-break security codes, or predicting multiple particle interactions in chemical reactions.Unfortunately, once a superposition meets with materials that are part of a measured system, it loses its in-between state in what’s known as decoherence and becomes a boring old classical bit.Building a functional quantum computer requires holding an object in that superposition state long enough to carry out various processes on them. Devices need to be able to shield quantum states from decoherence, while still making them easy to read.Different processes are tackling this challenge from different angles, whether it’s to use more vigorous quantum processes or to find better ways to check for errors.

## What is Quantum Supremacy?

We might be quite familiar with these words but still we don’t know what it exactly means.Quantum supremacy describes the ability of a quantum computer to outperform their classical counterparts.Some TechGiants, such as IBM and Google, working hard to get close as they continue to crowd more qubits together and build more accurate devices.I strongly believe that even the hardest problems would have some simplest solutions. Experiments in quantum physics are now creating artificial physical systems that obey the laws of quantum mechanics but do not exist in nature under normal conditions. An example of such an artificial system is a quantum computer. A quantum computer encodes information into quantum states and computes by performing quantum operations on it.There are several tasks for which a quantum computer will be useful. The one that is mentioned most frequently is that quantum computers will be able to read secret messages communicated over the internet using the current technologies (such as RSA,and other cryptographic protocols that are based on the hardness of number-theoretic problems like factoring and discrete logarithm). But there are many other fascinating applications.
Another use of quantum computers is searching huge amounts of data. Let’s say that we have a large phone book, ordered alphabetically by individual names (and not by phone numbers). If we wanted to find the person’s phone number, we would have to go through the whole phone book and look at every entry. For a phone book with one million phone numbers, it could take one million steps. It is discovered that a quantum computer would be able to do the same task with one thousand steps instead of one million.
Another example of that is if we want to find two equal numbers in a large amount of data. Again, if we have one million numbers, a classical computer might have to look at all of them and take one million steps. It is discovered that a quantum computer could do it in a substantially smaller amount of time.


All of these achievements of quantum computing are based on the same effects of quantum mechanics. On a high level, these are known as quantum parallelism and quantum interference.
A conventional computer processes information by encoding it into 0s and 1s. If we have a sequence of thirty 0s and 1s, it has about approximately a billion of possible values. However, a classical computer can only be in one of these one billion states at the same time. A quantum computer can be in a quantum combination of all of those states, called superposition. This allows it to perform one billion or more copies of a computation at the same time. In a way, this is similar to a parallel computer with one billion processors performing different computations at the same time — with one crucial difference. For a parallel computer, we need to have one billion different processors. In a quantum computer, all one billion computations will be running on the same hardware. This is known as quantum parallelism. The result of this process is a quantum state that encodes the results of one billion computations. The challenge for a person who designs algorithms for a quantum computer is : how do they access these billion results? If we measured this quantum state, we would get just one of the results. All of the other 999,999,999 results would disappear. To solve this problem, one can use the second effect, quantum interference. Consider a process that can arrive at the same outcome in several different ways. In the non-quantum world, if there are two possible paths toward one result and each path is taken with a probability ¼, the overall probability of obtaining this result is ¼+¼= ½. The two paths can interfere, increasing the probability of success to 1.

Quantum algorithms combine these two effects. Quantum parallelism is used to perform a large number of computations at the same time, and quantum interference is used to combine their results into something that is both meaningful and can be measured according to the laws of quantum mechanics.

The fascinating thing is that all of these physical systems, from atoms to electric current in a superconductor, behave according to the same physical laws. And they all can perform quantum computation. Moving forward with any of these technologies relates to a fundamental problem in experimental physics about isolating quantum systems from environment which is a very difficult.
In addition to this, quantum computing can help in creating encryption methods, also known as, quantum cryptography.Now,let’s talk about how it helps people. When i started to know more about this ,I found something interesting and I thought we can lead even more better lives if we have Quantum-Secure Encryption to prevent future attacks. In contrast, universal quantum computers are capable of solving all types of computational problems, yet unavailable.


If you’ve found this post helpful and you are interested in similar content, please give me a follow or share. Your support is really appreciated!

[Check here](https://medium.com/@gayatrivalp/how-quantum-computers-can-change-the-world-1bf0c780ae27)
